---
layout: post
title: A Nemesis Is A Good Thing
author: Will Engler
date: 2015-01-21 09:55:30
---

It would be fun to have a nemesis. I imagine glimpsing my nemesis on campus. We stop in our tracks and stare each other down from a hundred yards away. Students hustling to class cross our gaze, unaware that they are party to a feud for the very soul of Pittsburgh. We walk away in silence, our chests freshly filled with fire. I speed away to somewhere with a chair and an outlet where I can spin up my laptop and plot his demise before he plots mine.

Cool, yeah?

I got a nemesis last week. He's not the ideal nemesis. He seldom communicates with me in menacing riddles. It'd be great if he were driven by a deep hatred of humanity but he's actually quite pleasant. Fortunately, we both want badly to succeed in a way that assures the other's failure, so he'll do.

An Origin Story
---------------

The name of my nemesis is Tommy. I worked with him and another classmate named Joel in a web development course. We made an application called [SwipeMe][repo] that let Pitt students work around restrictions on selling their dining hall passes. It was well-received in our class. We got a prototype working by the end of the semester. 

SwipeMe is no longer a class project, but Joel and I wanted to continue developing it as much to see an interesting idea to completion as to maintain a great working relationship.

Our working relationship with Tommy was not as good. We wanted to continue the project without him, but he still wanted in. Rather than abandon SwipeMe, we decided to do something maybe more stupid and certainly more interesting.

The Great Fork of 2015
-----------------------

We forked it. Both teams want their version of SwipeMe to be the one that the freshmen of Pitt with too many meal passes adopt. As Joel and I take SwipeMe from prototy pe to deployment, we'll have to consider the threat that Tommy will beat us to market with a better app.

It's shaping up to be a friendly rivalry. We're all quite pleased to have such nice nemeses. As Tommy wrote in a recent text,
> I feel this will be a true test of how far we've come.
> \#CodingDeathmatch
> \#Rivalry

The game is afoot.

[repo]: https://github.com/SwipeMe/SwipeMe